<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>Chapter ⅤⅠ: The Miracle • The Miracle of the Lily</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="../style/style.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
	<h2>
		<span class="label-and-ordinal"><span epub:type="label">Chapter</span> <abbr title="six" epub:type="ordinal">ⅤⅠ</abbr><span class="t">: </span></span>
		<span epub:type="title">The Miracle</span>
	</h2>
</header>
<p>
	<span class="first-words">For</span> days following my unfortunate experience with Stentor, I experimented upon the tiny objects that had so terrified him.
	I subjected them to various tests for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not they bore evidence of life, whether in egg, pupa or larva stages of development.
	And to all my experiments, there was but one answer.
	No life was manifest.
	Yet I was not satisfied, for chemical tests showed that they were composed of organic matter.
	Here was an inexplicable enigma!
	Many times I was on the verge of consigning the entire contents of the chest to the flames.
	I seemed to see in my mind’s eye the world again over-ridden with insects, and that calamity due to the indiscretions of one man!
	My next impulse was to turn over my problem to scientists, when a suspicion of the truth dawned upon me.
	These were seeds, the germs of plant-life, and they might grow.
	But alas, where?
	Over all the earth man has spread his artificial dominion.
	The state-city has been succeeded by what could be termed the nation-city, for one great floor of concrete or rock covers the country.
</p>
<p>
	I resolved to try an experiment, the far-reaching influence of which I did not at that time suspect.
	Beneath the lowest level of the community edifice in which I dwell, I removed, by means of a small atomic excavator, a slab of concrete large enough to admit my body.
	I let myself down into the hole and felt my feet resting on a soft dark substance that I knew to be dirt.
	I hastily filled a box of this, and after replacing the concrete slab, returned to my room, where I proceeded to plant a variety of the seeds.
</p>
<p>
	Being a product of an age when practically to wish for a thing in a material sense is to have it, I experienced the greatest impatience, while waiting for any evidences of plant-life to become manifest.
	Daily, yes hourly, I watched the soil for signs of a type of life long since departed from the earth, and was about convinced that the germ of life could not have survived the centuries, when a tiny blade of green proved to me that a miracle, more wonderful to me than the works of man through the ages, was taking place before my eyes.
	This was an enigma so complex and yet so simple, that one recognized in it a direct revelation of Nature.
</p>
<p>
	Daily and weekly I watched in secret the botanical miracle.
	It was my one obsession. I was amazed at the fascination it held for me – a man who viewed the marvels of the thirty-fourth century with unemotional complacency.
	It showed me that Nature is manifest in the simple things which mankind has chosen to ignore.
</p>
<p>
	Then one morning, when I awoke, a white blossom displayed its immaculate beauty and sent forth its delicate fragrance into the air.
	The lily, a symbol of new life, resurrection!
	I felt within me the stirring of strange emotions I had long believed dead in the bosom of man.
	But the message must not be for me alone.
	As of old, the lily would be the symbol of life for all!
</p>
<p>
	With trembling hands, I carried my precious burden to a front window where it might be witnessed by all who passed by.
	The first day there were few who saw it, for only rarely do men and women walk; they usually ride in speeding vehicles of one kind or another, or employ electric skates, a delightful means of locomotion, which gives the body some exercise.
	The fourth city level, which is reserved for skaters and pedestrians, is kept in a smooth glass-like condition.
	And so it was only the occasional pedestrian, walking on the outer border of the fourth level, upon which my window faced, who first carried the news of the growing plant to the world, and it was not long before it was necessary for civic authorities to disperse the crowds that thronged to my window for a glimpse of a miracle in green and white.
</p>
<p>
	When I showed my beautiful plant to Stentor, he was most profuse in his apology and came to my rooms every day to watch it unfold and develop, but the majority of people, long used to business-like efficiency, were intolerant of the sentimental emotions that swayed a small minority, and I was commanded to dispose of the lily.
	But a figurative seed had been planted in the human heart, a seed that could not be disposed of so readily, and this seed ripened and grew until it finally bore fruit.
</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
