<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>Chapter Ⅴ: The Year 3928 • The Miracle of the Lily</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="../style/style.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
<header>
	<h2>
		<span class="label-and-ordinal"><span epub:type="label">Chapter</span><span class="t"> </span><abbr title="five" epub:type="ordinal">Ⅴ</abbr><span class="t">: </span></span>
		<span epub:type="title">The Year 3928</span>
	</h2>
  <p class="chapter-source">
    The Original Writer, Nathano, Resumes the Narrative 
  </p>
</header>
<p>
	<span class="first-words">My</span> ancestor, Thanor, of ten centuries ago, according to the records he gave to my great grandfather, seems to voice the general despair of humanity which, bad enough in his times, has reached the <i><var>n</var>th</i> power in my day.
	A soulless world is gradually dying, from self-inflicted boredom.
</p>
<p>
	As I have ascertained from the perusal of the journals of my forebears, even antedating the extermination of the insects, I come of a stock that clings with sentimental tenacity to the things that made life worth while in the old days.
	If the world at large knew of my emotional musings concerning past ages, it would scarcely tolerate me, but surrounded by my thought-insulator, I often indulge in what fancies I will, and such meditation, coupled with a love for a few ancient relics from the past, have led me to a most amazing discovery.
</p>
<p>
	Several months ago I found among my family relics a golden receptacle two feet long, one and a half in width and one in depth, which I found, upon opening, to contain many tiny square compartments, each filled with minute objects of slightly varying size, texture and color.
</p>
<p>
	“Not sand!” I exclaimed as I closely examined the little particles of matter.
</p>
<p>
	Food?
	After eating some, I was convinced that their nutritive value was small in comparison with a similar quantity of the products of our laboratories.
	What were the mysterious objects?
</p>
<p>
	Just as I was about to close the lid again, convinced that I had one over-sentimental ancestor, whose gift to posterity was absolutely useless, my pocket-radio buzzed and the voice of my friend, Stentor, the interplanetary broadcaster, issued from the tiny instrument.
</p>
<p>
	“If you’re going to lie home this afternoon,” said Stentor, “I’ll skate over.
	I have some interesting news.”
</p>
<p>
	I consented, for I thought I would share my “find” with this friend whom I loved above all others, but before he arrived I had again hidden my golden chest, for I had decided to await the development of events before sharing its mysterious secret with another.
	It was well that I did this for Stentor was so filled with the importance of his own news that he could have given me little attention at first.
</p>
<p>
	“Well, what is your interesting news?” I asked after he was comfortably seated in my adjustable chair.
</p>
<p>
	“You’d never guess,” he replied with irritating leisureliness.
</p>
<p>
	“Does it pertain to Mars or Venus?” I queried, “What news of our neighbor planets?”
</p>
<p>
	“You may know it has nothing to do with the self-satisfied Martians,” answered the broadcaster, “but the Venusians have a very serious problem confronting them.
	It is in connection with the same old difficulty they have bad ever since interplanetary radio was developed forty years ago.
	You remember, that, in their second communication with us, they told us of their continual warfare on insect pests that were destroying all vegetable food?
	Well, last night after general broadcasting had ceased, I was surprised to hear the voice of the Venusian broadcaster.
	He is suggesting that we get up a scientific expedition to Venus to help the natives of his unfortunate planet solve their insect problem as we did ours.
	He says the Martians turn a deaf ear to their plea for help, hut he expects sympathy and assistance from Earth who has so recently solved these problems for herself.”
</p>
<p>
	I was dumbfounded at Stentor’s news.
	“But the Venusians are farther advanced mechanically than we,” I objected, “though they are behind us in the natural sciences.
	They could much more easily solve the difficulties of space-flying than we could.”
</p>
<p>
	“That is true,” agreed Stentor, “but if we are to render them material aid in freeing their world from devastating insects, we must get to Venus.
	The past four decades have proved that we can not help them merely by verbal instructions.”
</p>
<p>
	“Now, last night,” Stentor continued, with warming enthusiasm, “Wanyana, the Venusian broadcaster, informed me that scientists on Venus are developing interplanetary television.
	This, if successful, will prove highly beneficial in facilitating communication, and it may even do away with the necessity of interplanetary travel, which I think is centuries ahead of us yet.”
</p>
<p>
	“Television, though so common here on Earth and on Venus, has seemed an impossibility across the ethereal void,” I said, “but if it becomes a reality, I believe it will be the Venusians who will take the initiative, though of course they will be helpless without our friendly cooperation.
	In return for the mechanical instructions they have given us from time to time, I think it no more than right that we should try to give them all the help possible in freeing their world, as ours has been freed, of the insects that threaten their very existence.
	Personally, therefore, I hope it can be done through radio and television rather than by personal excursions.”
</p>
<p>
	“I believe you are right,” he admitted, “but I hope we can be of service to them soon.
	Ever since I have served in the capacity of official interplanetary broadcaster, I have liked the spirit of good fellowship shown by the Venusians through their spokesman, Wanyana.
	The impression is favorable in contrast to the superciliousness of the inhabitants of Mars.”
	We conversed for some time, but at length he rose to take his leave.
	It was then I ventured to broach the subject that was uppermost in my thoughts.
</p>
<p>
	“I want to show you something, Stentor,” I said, going into an adjoining room for my precious box and returning shortly with it.
	“A relic from the days of an ancestor named Delfair, who lived at the time the last insect, a beetle, was kept in captivity.
	Judging from his personal account, Delfair was fully aware of the significance of the changing times in which be lived, and contrary to the majority of his contemporaries, possessed a sentimentality of soul that has proved an historical asset to future generations.
	Look, my friend, these he left to posterity!”
</p>
<p>
	I deposited the heavy casket on a table between us and lifted the lid, revealing to Stentor the mystifying particles.
</p>
<p>
	The face of Stentor was eloquent of astonishment.
	Not unnaturally his mind took somewhat the same route as mine had followed previously, though he added atomic-power-units to the list of possibilities.
	He shook his head in perplexity.
</p>
<p>
	“Whatever they are, there must have been a real purpose behind their preservation,” he said at last.
	“You say this old Delfair witnessed the passing of the insects?
	What sort of a fellow was he?
	Likely to be up to any tricks?”
</p>
<p>
	“Not at all,” I asserted rather indignantly, “he seemed a very serious minded chap; worked in an oxygen-plant and took an active part in the last warfare between men and insects.”
</p>
<p>
	Suddenly Stentor stooped over and scooped up some of the minute particles into the palm of his hand – and then he uttered a maniacal shriek and flung them into the air.
</p>
<p>
	“Great God, man, do you know what they are?” he screamed, shaking violently.
</p>
<p>
	“No, I do not,” I replied quietly, with an attempt at dignity I did not feel.
</p>
<p>
	“Insect eggs!” he cried, and shuddering with terror, he made for the door.
</p>
<p>
	I caught him on the threshold and pulled him forcibly back into the room.
</p>
<p>
	“Now see here,” I said sternly, “not a word of this to anyone.
	Do you understand?
	I will test out your theory in every possible way but I want no public interference.”
</p>
<p>
	At first he was obstinate, but finally yielded to threats when supplications were impotent.
</p>
<p>
	“I will test them,” I said, “and will endeavor to keep hatchings under absolute control, should they prove to be what you suspect.”
</p>
<p>
	It was time for the evening broadcasting, so he left, promising to keep our secret and leaving me regretting that I had taken another into my confidence.
</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
