<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>Chapter Ⅰ: The Passing of a Kingdom • The Miracle of the Lily</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="../style/style.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
	<h2>
		<span class="label-and-ordinal"><span epub:type="label">Chapter</span> <abbr title="one" epub:type="ordinal">Ⅰ</abbr><span class="t">: </span></span>
		<span epub:type="title">The Passing of a Kingdom</span>
	</h2>
</header>
<p>
	<span class="first-words">Since</span> the comparatively recent resumé of the ancient order of agriculture I, Nathano, have been asked to set down the extraordinary events of the past two thousand years, at the beginning of which time the supremacy of man, chief of the mammals, threatened to come to an untimely end.
</p>
<p>
	Ever since the dawn of life upon this globe, life, which it seemed had crept from the slime of the sea, only two great types had been the rulers; the reptiles and the mammals.
	The former held undisputed sway for eons, but gave way eventually before the smaller, but intellectually superior mammals.
	Man himself, the supreme example of the ability of life to govern and control inanimate matter, was master of the world with apparently none to dispute his right.
	Yet, so blinded was he with pride over the continued exercise of his power on Earth over other lower types of mammals and the nearly extinct reptiles, that he failed to notice the slow but steady rise of another branch of life, different from his own; smaller, it is true, but no smaller than he had been in comparison with the mighty reptilian monsters that roamed the swamps in Mesozoic times.
</p>
<p>
	These new enemies of man, though seldom attacking him personally, threatened his downfall by destroying his chief means of sustenance, so that by the close of the twentieth century, strange and daring projects were laid before the various governments of the world with an idea of fighting man’s insect enemies to the finish.
	These pests were growing in size, multiplying so rapidly and destroying so much vegetation, that eventually no plants would be left to sustain human life.
	Humanity suddenly woke to the realization that it might suffer the fate of the nearly extinct reptiles.
	Would mankind be able to prevent the encroachment of the insects?
	And at last man <em>knew</em> that unless drastic measures were taken <em>at once</em>, a third great class of life was on the brink of terrestrial sovereignty.
</p>
<p>
	Of course no great changes in development come suddenly.
	Slow evolutionary progress had brought us up to the point, where, with the application of outside pressure, we were ready to handle a situation, that, a century before, would have overwhelmed us.
</p>
<p>
	I reproduce here in part a lecture delivered by a great American scientist, a talk which, sent by radio throughout the world, changed the destiny of mankind; but whether for good or for evil I will leave you to judge at the conclusion of this story.
</p>
<p>
	“Only in comparatively recent times has man succeeded in conquering natural enemies; flood, storm, inclemency of climate, distance, and now we face an encroaching menace to the whole of humanity.
	Have we learned more and more of truth and of the laws that control matter only to succumb to the first real clanger that threatens us with extermination?
	Surely, no matter what the cost, you will rally to the solution of our problem, and I believe, friends, that I have discovered the answer to the enigma.
</p>
<p>
	“I know that many of you, like my friend Professor Fair, will believe my ideas too extreme, but I am convinced that unless you are willing to put behind you those notions which are old and not utilitarian, you cannot hope to cope with the present situation. 
</p>
<p>
	“Already, in the past few decades, you have realized the utter futility of encumbering yourselves with superfluous possessions that had no useful virtue, but which, for various sentimental reasons, you continued to hoard, thus lessening the degree of your life’s efficiency by using for it time and attention that should have been applied to the practical work of life’s accomplishments.
	You have given these things up slowly, but I am now going to ask you to relinquish the rest of them <em>quickly</em>; everything that interferes in any way with the immediate disposal of our enemies, the insects.”
</p>
<p>
	At this point, it seems that my worthy ancestor, Professor Fair, objected to the scientist’s words, asserting that efficiency at the expense of some of the sentimental virtues was undesirable and not conducive to happiness, the real goal of man.
	The scientist, in his turn, argued that happiness was available only through a perfect adaptability to one’s environment, and that efficiency <i lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">sans</i> love, mercy and the softer sentiments was the short cut to human bliss.
</p>
<p>
	It took a number of years for the scientist to put over his scheme of salvation, but in the end he succeeded, not so much from the persuasiveness of his words, as because prompt action of some sort was necessary.
	There was not enough food to feed the people of the earth.
	Fruit and vegetables were becoming a thing of the past.
	Too much protein food in the form of meat and fish was injuring the race, and at last the people realized that, for fruits and vegetables, or their nutritive equivalent, they must turn from the field to the laboratory; from the farmer to the chemist.
	Synthetic food was the solution to the problem.
	There was no longer any use in planting and caring for food stuffs destined to become the nourishment of man’s most deadly enemy.
</p>
<p>
	The last planting took place in 2900, but there was no harvest, the voracious insects took every green shoot as soon as it appeared, and even trees, that had previously withstood the attacks of the huge insects, were by this time, stripped of every vestige of greenery. 
</p>
<p>
	The vegetable world suddenly ceased to exist.
	Over the barren plains which had been gradually filling with vast cities, man-made fires brought devastation to every living bit of greenery, so that in all the world there was no food for the insect pests.
</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
