<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>Chapter ⅠⅠⅠ: Lucanus the Last • The Miracle of the Lily</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="../style/style.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
<header>
	<h2>
		<span class="label-and-ordinal"><span epub:type="label">Chapter</span> <abbr title="three" epub:type="ordinal">ⅠⅠⅠ</abbr><span class="t">: </span></span>
		<span epub:type="title">Lucanus the Last</span>
	</h2>
  <p class="chapter-source">
    A Continuation of Delfair’s Account
  </p>
</header>
<p>
	<span class="first-words">Although</span> it was evident that the cessation of all plant-life spelled inevitable doom for the insect inhabitants of Earth, their extermination did not follow as rapidly as one might have supposed.
	There were years of internecine warfare.
	The insects continued to thrive, though in decreasing numbers, upon stolen laboratory foods, bodies of human-beings and finally upon each other; at first capturing enemy species and at last even resorting to a cannibalistic procedure.
	Their rapacity grew in inverse proportion to their waning numbers, until the meeting of even an isolated insect might mean death, unless one were equipped with poison gas and prepared to use it upon a second’s notice.
</p>
<p>
	I am an old man now, though I have not yet lived quite two centuries, but I am happy in the knowledge that I have lived to see the last living insect which was held in captivity.
	It was an excellent specimen of the stag-beetle (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">Lucanus</i>) and the years have testified that it was the sole survivor of a form of life that might have succeeded man upon this planet.
	This beetle was caught weeks after we had previously seen what was supposed to be the last living thing upon the globe, barring man and the sea-life.
	Untiring search for years has failed to reveal any more insects, so that at last man rests secure in the knowledge that he is monarch of all he surveys.
</p>
<p>
	I have heard that long, long ago man used to gaze with a fearful fascination upon the reptilian creatures which he displaced, and just so did he view this lone specimen of a type of life that might have covered the face of the earth, but for man’s ingenuity.
</p>
<p>
	It was this unholy lure that drew me one day to view the captive beetle in his cage in district 404 at Universapolis.
	I was amazed at the size of the creature, for it looked larger than when I had seen it by television, but I reasoned that upon that occasion there had been no object near with which to compare its size.
	True, the broadcaster had announced its dimensions, but the statistics concretely given had failed to register a perfect realization of its prodigious proportions.
</p>
<p>
	As I approached the cage, the creature was lying with its dorsal covering toward me and I judged it measured fourteen inches from one extremity to the other.
	Its smooth horny sheath gleamed in the bright artificial light.
	(It was confined on the third level.)
	As I stood there, mentally conjuring a picture of a world overrun with billions of such creatures as the one before me, the keeper approached the cage with a meal-portion of synthetic food.
	Although the food has no odor, the beetle sensed the man’s approach, for it rose on its jointed legs and came toward us, its horn-like prongs moving threateningly; then apparently remembering its confinement, and the impotency of an attack, it subsided and quickly ate the food which had been placed within its prison.
</p>
<p>
	The food consumed, it lifted itself to its hind legs, partially supported by a box, and turned its great eyes upon me.
	I had never been regarded with such utter malevolence before.
	The detestation was almost tangible and I shuddered involuntarily.
	As plainly as if he spoke, I knew that Lucanus was perfectly cognizant of the situation and in his gaze I read the concentrated hate of an entire defeated race.
</p>
<p>
	I had no desire to gloat over his misfortune, rather a great pity toward him welled up within me.
	I pictured myself alone, the last of my kind, held up for ridicule before the swarming hordes of insects who had conquered my people, and I knew that life would no longer be worth the living.
</p>
<p>
	Whether he sensed my pity or not I do not know, but he continued to survey me with unmitigated rage, as if he would convey to me the information that his was an impacable hatred that would outlast eternity.
</p>
<p>
	Not long after this he died, and a world long since intolerant of ceremony, surprised itself by interring the beetle’s remains in a golden casket, accompanied by much pomp and splendor.
</p>
<p>
	I have lived many long years since that memorable event, and undoubtedly my days here are numbered, but I can pass on happily, convinced that in this sphere man’s conquest of his environment is supreme.
</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
